                           

1. driverquery – Lists All Installed Drivers
2. powershell start cmd -v runAs – Run the Command Prompt as an Administrator
3. chdir or cd – Changes the Current Working Directory to the Specified Directory
4. systeminfo – Shows Your PC's Details
5. set – Shows your PC’s Environment Variables
6. prompt – Changes the Default Text Shown before Entering Commands
7. clip – Copies an Item to the Clipboard
8. assoc – Lists Programs and the Extensions They are Associated With
9. title – Changes the Command Prompt Window Title Using the Format title window-title-name
10. fc – Compares Two Similar Files
11. cipher – Wipes Free Space and Encrypts Data
12. netstat -an – Shows Open Ports, their IP Addresses and States
13. ping – Shows a Website IP Address, Lets you Know How Long it Takes to Transmit Data and a Get Response
14. color – Changes the Text Color of the Command Prompt
15. for /f "skip=9 tokens=1,2 delims=:" %i in ('netsh wlan show profiles') do @echo %j | findstr -i -v echo | netsh wlan show profiles %j key=clear – Shows All Wi-Fi Passwords
16. ipconfig – Shows Information about PC IP Addresses and Connections
17. sfc – System File Checker
          This command scans your computer for corrupt files and repairs them. 
          The extension of the command you can use to run a scan is /scannow.
18. powercfg – Controls Configurable Power Settings
               You can use this command with its several extensions to show information about the power state of your PC.
19. dir – Lists Items in a Directory
20. del – Deletes a File
26. attrib +h +s +r folder_name – Hides a Folder
27. start website-address – Logs on to a Website from the Command Line
28. tree – Shows the Tree of the Current Directory or Specified Drive
29. ver – Shows the Version of the OS
30. tasklist – Shows Open Programs
31. taskkill – Terminates a Running Task
32. date – Shows and Changes the Current Date
33. time – Shows and Changes the Current Time
34. vol – Shows the Serial Number and Label Info of the Current Drive
35. dism – Runs the Deployment Image Service Management Tool
36. echo – Shows Custom Messages or Messages from a Script or File
           You can also use the echo command to create a file with this syntax echo file-content > filename.extension.
37. mkdir – Creates a Folder
38. rmdir – Deletes a Folder
39. more – Shows More Information or the Content of a File
40. move – Moves a File or Folder to a Specified Folder
41. ren – Renames a File with the Syntax ren filename.extension new-name.extension
42. cls – Clears the Command Line
          In case you enter several commands and the command line gets clogged up,
          you can use cls to clear all entries and their outputs.
43. exit – Closes the Command Line
44. shutdown – Shuts down, Restarts, Hibernates, Sleeps the Computer