Http :- 
    
    HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a stateless protocol, which means that it does not retain information about previous 
    interactions between a client (such as a web browser) and a server. Each request from the client to the server is treated as 
    an independent transaction, and the server does not maintain any memory of previous requests.
    Here's why HTTP is considered stateless:  
    No Memory of Previous Requests: The server does not retain any information about previous requests made by the client. 
                                    Each request is processed independently, without any knowledge of the requests that came 
                                    before it.

    No Client Context: The server does not maintain any information about the state of the client, 
                       such as session data or user preferences. This means that each request from the client must 
                       contain all the necessary information for the server to process it.

    No Dependency on Previous Responses: The response to a request is sent back to the client independently of any previous responses. 
                                         The server does not rely on the client's previous requests or responses to generate a response 
                                         to the current request.

While HTTP itself is stateless, web applications often require maintaining some form of state for tasks such as user authentication, 
session management, and tracking user activity. To address this, various techniques such as cookies, sessions, and tokens are used 
to manage state on top of the stateless HTTP protocol. These techniques allow web applications to remember user information and 
maintain a sense of continuity across multiple requests and responses.
A cookie, also known as an HTTP cookie, web cookie, or browser cookie, is a small piece of data stored on the user's computer 
by the web browser while browsing a website. Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember stateful 
information (such as items added in the shopping cart in an online store) or to record the user's browsing activity 
(including clicking particular buttons, logging in, or recording which pages were visited in the past). 
They can also be used to remember arbitrary pieces of information that the user previously entered into form fields such as names, 
addresses, passwords, and credit card numbers.

                                      HTTP methods.....

GET  :-    The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
HEAD :-    The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.
POST :-    The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
PUT  :-    The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
DELETE :-  The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
CONNECT :- The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
OPTIONS :- The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE  :-  The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
PATCH  :-  The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.

NOTE => A loopback test is a diagnostic procedure used to test the functionality and transmission capabilities of a network device, system, 
        or communication line

                                     HTTP - Req Header.....

Request Headers :- Contain more information about the resource to be fetched, or about the client requesting the resource.

A request header is an HTTP header that can be used in an HTTP request to provide information about the request context, 
so that the server can tailor the response. For example, the Accept-* headers indicate the allowed and preferred formats of 
the response. Other headers can be used to supply authentication credentials (e.g. Authorization), to control caching, or to 
get information about the user agent or referrer, etc.

Req Header ex..

GET /home.html HTTP/1.1
Host: developer.mozilla.org
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.9; rv:50.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/50.0
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Referer: https://developer.mozilla.org/testpage.html
Connection: keep-alive
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
If-Modified-Since: Mon, 18 Jul 2016 02:36:04 GMT
If-None-Match: "c561c68d0ba92bbeb8b0fff2a9199f722e3a621a"
Cache-Control: max-age=0

The Connection general header controls whether the network connection stays open after the current transaction finishes. 
If the value sent is keep-alive , the connection is persistent and not closed, allowing for subsequent requests 
to the same server to be done.

                                                      Res Header :- 

A response header is an HTTP header that can be used in an HTTP response and that doesn't relate to the content of the message. 
Response headers, like Age, Location or Server are used to give a more detailed context of the response.
Not all headers appearing in a response are categorized as response headers by the specification. 
For example, the Content-Type header is a representation header indicating the original type of data in the body of the response 
message (prior to the encoding in the Content-Encoding representation header being applied). However, "conversationally"
all headers are usually referred to as response headers in a response message.


Res Header ex .

200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Encoding: gzip
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2016 16:06:00 GMT
Etag: "c561c68d0ba92bbeb8b0f612a9199f722e3a621a"
Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=997
Last-Modified: Mon, 18 Jul 2016 02:36:04 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: mykey=myvalue; expires=Mon, 17-Jul-2017 16:06:00 GMT; Max-Age=31449600; Path=/; secure
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Vary: Cookie, Accept-Encoding
X-Backend-Server: developer2.webapp.scl3.mozilla.com
X-Cache-Info: not cacheable; meta data too large
X-kuma-revision: 1085259
x-frame-options: DENY

What is cache-control?
Cache-control is an HTTP header that dictates browser caching behavior. In a nutshell, when someone visits a website,
their browser will save certain resources, such as images and website data, in a store called the cache. When that user revisits 
the same website, cache-control sets the rules which determine whether that user will have those resources loaded from their local 
cache, or whether the browser will have to send a request to the server for fresh resources. 

As explained above, browser caching is when a web browser saves website resources so it doesn’t have to fetch them again from a server. 
For example, a background image on a website might be saved locally in cache so that when a user visits that page for the second time, 
the image will load from the user’s local files and the page will load much faster.

Browsers will only store these resources for a specified period of time, known as the time to live (TTL). If a user requests a cached 
resource after the TTL has expired, the browser will have to reach out to the server again and download a fresh copy of the resource. 
How do browsers and web servers know the TTL for each resource? This is where HTTP headers come into play.

Cache-Control is an HTTP header that can be used in both request and response headers. It is used to control how browsers and 
other intermediaries cache resources.
When used in a request header, Cache-Control can be used to specify that the client does not want to receive a cached response, 
or that it is willing to accept a stale response. When used in a response header, Cache-Control can be used to specify how long 
the client should cache the response, or whether it should cache the response at all.

What is in a cache-control header?
Headers consist of key-value pairs which are separated by a colon. For cache-control, the ‘key’, or the part to the left of the colon, 
is always ‘cache-control’. The ‘value’ is what’s found on the right of the colon, and there can be one or several comma-separated values
for cache control.
These values are called directives, and they dictate who can cache a resource as well as how long those resources can be cached before 
they must be updated. Below we go through some of the most common cache-control directives:

cache-control: private
A response with a ‘private’ directive can only be cached by the client and never by an intermediary agent, such as a CDN or a proxy. 
These are often resources containing private data, such as a website displaying a user’s personal information.
A cachcache-control: public
Conversely, the ‘public’ directive means the resource can be stored by any cache.e-control header can appear in both HTTP 
requests and responses.

cache-control: no-store
A response with a ‘no-store’ directive cannot be cached anywhere, ever. This means that every time a user requests this data, 
a request must be sent to the origin server for a fresh copy. This directive is typically reserved for resources that contain 
extremely sensitive data, such as bank account information.

cache-control: no-cache
This directive means that cached versions of the requested resource cannot be used without first checking to see if there is an 
updated version. This is typically done using an ETag.

An ETag is another HTTP header which contains a token unique to the version of the resource at the time it was requested. 
This token is changed on the origin server whenever the resource is updated.

When a user returns to a page with a ‘no-cache’ resource, the client will always have to connect to the origin server and 
compare the ETag on the cached resource with one on the server. If the ETags are identical, the cached resource will be 
provided to the user. If not, this means that the resource has been updated and the client will need to download a fresh 
version to provide to the user. This process ensures that the user is always getting the most up-to-date version of that 
resource without requiring unnecessary downloads.

cache-control: max-age
This directive dictates the time to live, in other words how many seconds a resource can be served from cache after it's been 
downloaded. For example, if the max age is set to 1800, this means that for 1,800 seconds (30 minutes) after the resource was 
first requested from the server, the user will be served a cached version of that resource on subsequent requests. If the user 
requests the resource again after that 30 minutes has expired, the client will have to request a fresh copy from the origin server.

cache-control: s-maxage
The ‘s-maxage’ directive is specifically for shared caches such as CDNs, and it dictates how long those shared caches can keep 
serving up the resource from cache. This directive overrides the ‘max-age’ directive for individual clients.



                                                COOKIES


When a user visits a website that uses cookies for the first time, the website sends the user a cookie containing a unique identifier. 
The user's browser stores the cookie on their hard drive. When the user visits the website again, the browser sends the cookie back to 
the website. The website can then use the cookie to identify the user and retrieve any associated information, such as the items in 
their shopping cart.


Cookies can be used for a variety of purposes, including:
Authentication: Cookies can be used to authenticate users and keep them logged in to a website.
Personalization: Cookies can be used to personalize the content and experience of a website for each user.
Tracking: Cookies can be used to track users' browsing activity across multiple websites.
Advertising: Cookies can be used to target advertising to users based on their interests.
Cookies can be either session cookies or persistent cookies. Session cookies are deleted when the user closes their browser. 
Persistent cookies are stored on the user's computer until they expire or are deleted by the user.
There are a number of concerns about the privacy implications of cookies. Cookies can be used to track users' 
browsing activity across multiple websites, which can be used to build up a detailed profile of the user's interests. 
This information can then be used to target advertising to the user or to sell the information to third-party companies.
Users can control how cookies are used on their computer by changing their browser settings. Most browsers allow users to 
block all cookies, block third-party cookies, or allow all cookies. Users can also delete cookies that have already been 
stored on their computer.
Here are some of the benefits of using cookies:
Cookies can make websites more user-friendly by remembering the user's preferences and keeping them logged in.
Cookies can help websites to track their traffic and improve their performance.
Cookies can be used to target advertising to users based on their interests.
Here are some of the drawbacks of using cookies:
Cookies can be used to track users' browsing activity across multiple websites, which can be a privacy concern.
Cookies can be used to collect personal information about users without their consent.
Cookies can be used to spread malware.
Overall, cookies are a useful tool that can be used to improve the user experience on websites. However, 
it is important to be aware of the privacy implications of cookies and to take steps to protect your privacy.


                                                        NEED OF COOKIES 

Cookies are essential components of web technology that enable websites to store and retrieve information on a user's 
browser or device. They serve several crucial purposes in modern web development:
Session Management: Cookies are commonly used to manage user sessions. When a user logs into a website, 
a session cookie is often created to keep track of the user's authentication status. This allows the user to navigate between 
pages on the site without needing to re-authenticate on each request.

Personalization and Customization: Cookies enable websites to remember user preferences and settings. 
                                    For example, a website may use cookies to remember a user's language preference, 
                                    theme choice, or shopping cart contents. This personalization enhances the user experience 
                                    by tailoring the website to individual users.

Tracking and Analytics: Cookies are often used for tracking user behavior and gathering analytics data. 
                        Websites can use cookies to track users' navigation paths, measure website usage statistics, 
                        and analyze user interactions. This data is valuable for understanding user behavior, 
                        optimizing website performance, and targeting advertisements.

Targeted Advertising: Cookies are frequently utilized for targeted advertising purposes. 
                      Advertisers can use cookies to track users across different websites and build 
                      profiles based on their browsing history and interests. This enables advertisers to 
                      deliver personalized ads to users, increasing the relevance and effectiveness of advertisements.

E-commerce and Shopping: Cookies play a significant role in e-commerce applications by enabling features such as shopping cart 
                         persistence, product recommendations, and personalized shopping experiences. Cookies can store information 
                         about the items a user has added to their shopping cart, their browsing history, and their preferences, 
                         making the shopping experience more convenient and efficient.


Overall, cookies are indispensable tools for enhancing the functionality, usability, and personalization of websites and 
web applications. While they have raised concerns regarding privacy and security, proper implementation and management practices 
can mitigate these risks and ensure a positive user experience.

                                        COOKIE_ATTRIBUTES

Name and Value: Every cookie has a name-value pair associated with it. The name is a string that identifies the cookie, 
and the value is the data stored within the cookie.

Domain: The domain attribute specifies the domain for which the cookie is valid. By default, cookies 
are only sent to the domain that set them, but you can specify a broader domain to include subdomains as well.

Path: The path attribute specifies the URL path for which the cookie is valid. If the path is set to "/", 
the cookie is valid for the entire domain. Otherwise, it's only valid for the specified path and its subdirectories.

Expires/Max-Age: The expires attribute specifies the date and time when the cookie expires. After this date, 
the browser will no longer send the cookie to the server. Alternatively, you can use the max-age attribute to specify the cookie's lifespan 
in seconds from the time it's set.

Secure: The secure attribute indicates that the cookie should only be sent over HTTPS connections. 
It ensures that the cookie data is encrypted during transmission, providing additional security.

HttpOnly: The HttpOnly attribute prevents client-side scripts (e.g., JavaScript) from accessing the cookie. 
This helps mitigate certain types of cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks by preventing malicious scripts from 
stealing sensitive cookie data.

SameSite: The SameSite attribute controls when cookies are sent in cross-origin requests. It can be set to 
"Strict" (cookies are only sent in first-party context) or "Lax" (cookies are sent in first-party context and in 
some cross-origin requests initiated by top-level navigations).
The SameSite cookie attribute is a flag that can be included when setting cookies via HTTP response headers. 
It is used to mitigate certain types of cross-site request forgery (CSRF) and cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks by 
controlling whether cookies should be sent along with cross-site requests.

There are three possible values for the SameSite attribute:

Strict: With this value, cookies are only sent in a first-party context. This means that the cookie will only be 
sent along with requests originating from the same site that set the cookie. Cross-site requests, such as those initiated by links 
from other sites, won't include the cookie.
Lax: Cookies will be sent along with cross-site requests if they are "safe." Safe cross-site requests are defined as top-level 
navigation using a safe HTTP method (GET, HEAD, OPTIONS), or when making POST requests with certain content types 
that do not risk user data exposure (such as application/x-www-form-urlencoded or multipart/form-data). 
This is a more relaxed setting compared to Strict.
None: Cookies will be sent along with all cross-site requests. This is typically used for features that require cookie sharing across sites, 
such as third-party authentication.
If the SameSite attribute is not set, it defaults to None, which can expose the user to certain security risks. 
It's important for web developers to set the SameSite attribute appropriately based on their application's security requirements.

Here's an example of setting a cookie with the SameSite attribute in a HTTP response header:
Set-Cookie: key=value; SameSite=Lax; Secure

In this example, the cookie key with the value value is set with a SameSite attribute of Lax, meaning it will be sent along with cross-site requests only 
if they are safe. Additionally, the Secure attribute ensures that the cookie is only sent over HTTPS connections.
                               
                                   COOKIE VS Session

Cookies and sessions are both mechanisms used to maintain state in web applications, but they differ in their implementation and usage:

Cookies:

Storage: Cookies are small pieces of data stored on the client-side (in the user's browser) as text files. They are sent to the server 
with every HTTP request, including requests for images, CSS files, and JavaScript files, associated with the same domain that set the cookie.
Persistence: Cookies can have an expiration date, after which they are automatically deleted by the browser. Alternatively, they can 
be session cookies, which are deleted when the browser session ends (i.e., when the user closes the browser).
Size Limit: Cookies have a relatively small size limit, typically around 4 KB per cookie.
Security: Cookies can be manipulated by users, and their data can be exposed if not properly secured. They are susceptible to 
cross-site scripting (XSS) and cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks if not used securely.
Sessions:

Storage: Sessions store data on the server-side. When a user visits a website, the server generates a unique session ID, which 
is then stored as a cookie on the client-side. The session data is typically stored in a server-side database or memory store (e.g., Redis).
Persistence: Session data persists on the server until it expires or until the user logs out or the session is invalidated.
Size Limit: Sessions can store larger amounts of data compared to cookies because the data is stored on the server-side.
Security: Session data is generally more secure than cookies because it is stored on the server-side and is not directly accessible 
or modifiable by users. However, sessions are still vulnerable to session hijacking and session fixation attacks if not properly 
implemented and secured.
In summary, cookies are small pieces of data stored on the client-side, while sessions store data on the server-side. Cookies are suitable 
for storing small amounts of data that need to persist across multiple requests, while sessions are used to maintain user-specific data 
and state across multiple requests in a more secure manner.

httponly attributes means they can not be accessed by client side scripts... 

COOKIES ARE GENERALLY stored in the browser, website stores a corresponding file (with the same id tag) to the one they set in your browser
and in this file they can track and keep info on your movements within the site and any info you give while visiting the site..

TYPES OF COOKIES :-
1) Session Cookies :-
Imagine trying to shop on Amazon if you couldn’t fill your cart until you were ready to check out. You’d have to remember 
all the items you wanted to buy as you browse the site.
Without session cookies, that situation would be a reality.
It’s easiest to think of session cookies as a website’s short-term memory. They let sites recognise you as you move from page
to page within their domain. Without the session cookies, you’d be treated as a new visitor every time you clicked on a new internal link.
They do not collect any information about your computer, and they contain no personally identifiable information that can link a 
session to a particular user.
Session cookies are temporary; when you close your browser, your computer will automatically delete them all.

2) FIRST PARTY COOKIES :- 
Also known as persistent cookies, permanent cookies, and stored cookies, first-party cookies are akin to a website’s long-term memory. 
They help sites to remember your information and settings when you revisit them in the future.

Without these cookies, sites would not be able to remember your preferences such as menu settings, themes, language selection, and 
internal bookmarks between sessions. With first-party cookies, you can make those selections on your first visit and they will be 
consistent until the cookie expires.

Most persistent cookies expire after one or two years. If you do not visit the site within the expiration time frame, your browser will 
delete the cookie. You can also remove them manually.

First-party cookies also play an important role in user authentication. If you were to disable them, you would need to re-enter your login 
credentials every time you visited a page.

On the downside, companies can use persistent cookies to track you. Unlike session cookies, they do record information about your browsing 
habits for the entire time that they are active.

3) THIRD PARTY COOKIES :-
Third-party cookies are the bad guys. They are the reason that cookies have such a bad reputation among internet users.
Let’s take a step back. In the case of first-party cookies, a cookie’s domain will match the domain of the site you’re visiting. 
A third-party cookie originates from a different domain.
Because it is not coming from the site you’re looking at, a third-party cookie is not providing any of the benefits of session 
cookies and first-party cookies that we just discussed.
Instead, it has one sole focus – to track you. The tracking can take many forms; the cookies can learn about your browsing 
history, online behavior, demographics, spending habits, and more.
Because of their ability to track, third-party cookies have become a favorite of advertising networks in a bid to drive 
up their sales and page views.

4) SECURE COOKIES :-
The three types of cookies we’ve covered so far are the most well-known and the most common. But there are a few others 
you need to be aware of.
The first is a secure cookie. It can only be transmitted over an encrypted connection. Typically, that means HTTPS.
As long as the cookies “Secure” attribute is active, the user agent will not transmit the cookie over an unencrypted channel. 
Without the Secure flag, the cookie is sent in clear text and can be intercepted by unauthorized third-parties.
However, even with the Secure flag, developers should not use a cookie to store sensitive information. In practice, the flag 
only protects a cookie’s confidentiality. A network attacker could overwrite secure cookies from an insecure connection. This is 
especially true if a site has both an HTTP and HTTPS version

5) HTTP-only Cookies
Secure cookies are often also HTTP-only cookies. The two flags work in tandem to help to reduce a cookie’s vulnerability to 
a cross-site scripting (XSS) attack.
In an XSS attack, a hacker injects malicious code into trusted websites. A browser cannot tell that the script should not be trusted. 
Therefore, the script can access the browser’s data about the infected site, including cookies.
A secure cookie cannot be accessed by scripting languages (like JavaScript), thus protecting it against such attacks.

6) FLASH COOKIE :-
A Flash cookie is the most common type of supercookie. In case you’re not aware, a supercookie performs many of the same functions 
as a regular cookie, but they are more difficult to find and delete.
In the case of Flash cookies, developers use the Flash plugin to hide cookies from your browser’s native cookie management tools.
Flash cookies are available to all browsers (so using one browser for your credit card and one for downloading torrents would have
negligible security benefits). They can hold 100KB of data compared to an HTTP cookies’ mere 4KBb.

7) ZOOMBIE COOKIE :-
A zombie cookie is closely tied to a Flash cookie. A zombie cookie can instantly recreate itself if someone deletes it. 
The recreation is possible thanks to backups stored outside a browser’s regular cookie storage folder – often as a Flash Local 
Shared Object or as HTML5 Web Storage.
The recreation relies on Quantcast technology. Because Flash cookie stores a unique user ID in Adobe Flash player’s storage bin,
Quantcast can reapply it to a new HTTP cookie if the old one is removed.

COOKIE - SCAN 

CookieScan does all of this for you. It takes the worry away about not being compliant with the cookie laws, 
it collects consent and records it in case you are ever challenged. Once the code is embedded into your site’s header, 
CookieScan will regularly scan your site and identify all the cookies used. It will create your cookie policy or cookie 
notice for you and keep it up to date.
You can select the colour theme of the pop-up of the banner to match the colour theme of your website. You can select the type 
of banner you want to use, either a modal center placed pop-up or a banner placed at the bottom of the screen.
This will be displayed in any country that has a cookie law. In any country that does not have a cookie law, we will display an 
information-only banner to let the site visitor know cookies are being used and give them the option to look at the list of cookies 
on the site. Consent is not asked for, the continued use of the website is the implied consent needed.

