SAML (security assertion markup language) :--
It is an XML-based open-standard for transferring identity data between two parties: an identity provider (IdP) and a service provider (SP).

Identity Provider — Performs authentication and passes the user's identity and authorization level to the service provider.
Service Provider — Trusts the identity provider and authorizes the given user to access the requested resource.

he identity provider would be the IdP that Wizova uses, Auth0. The service provider would be Salesforce

The Wizova employee signs into the Wizova dashboard with Auth0. They click on the Salesforce icon, and 
Salesforce recognizes that the user wants to log in via SAML. Salesforce sends the employee back to Auth0 
with a SAML Request that asks Auth0 to authenticate the user. Since the employee has already authenticated 
with Auth0, Auth0 verifies the session and sends the user back to Salesforce with a SAML Response. Salesforce 
checks this response, and if it looks good, the employee is granted access!

Benefits of SAML Authentication
Improved User Experience — Users only need to sign in one time to access multiple service providers. 
This allows for a faster authentication process and less expectation of the user to remember multiple 
login credentials for every application. In the example above, that user could have clicked on any of the 
other icons in their dashboard and been promptly logged in without ever having to enter more credentials!

Increased Security — SAML provides a single point of authentication, which happens at a secure identity provider. 
Then, SAML transfers the identity information to the service providers. This form of authentication ensures that 
credentials are only sent to the IdP directly.

Loose Coupling of Directories — SAML doesn't require user information to be maintained and synchronized between directories.

Reduced Costs for Service Providers — With SAML, you don't have to maintain account information across multiple services. 
The identity provider bears this burden.

workflow ::::----

The user tries to log in to Zagadat from a browser.
Zagadat responds by generating a SAML request.
Typical SAML Authentication request

The browser redirects the user to an SSO URL, Auth0
Auth0 parses the SAML request and authenticates the user. This could be with username and password or even social login. 
If the user is already authenticated on Auth0, this step will be skipped. Once the user is authenticated, 
Auth0 generates a SAML response.
Auth0 returns the encoded SAML response to the browser.
The browser sends the SAML response to Zagadat for verification.
If the verification is successful, the user will be logged in to Zagadat and granted access to the resources 
that they are authorized to view/modify.
