Proxy server :- A proxy server acts as a gateway between users and internet. It can be set up as a firewall or web filter, 
acting as a layer of cyber security that
prevents cyber attacks from entering a private networks.It also protects computer from malwares and other threats.
=> It improves privacy,security and performance.
Tunneling :- Tunneling is a cryptographic network protocol that has multiple uses in networking:
Packet movement
Tunneling can move packets from one network to another by wrapping a packet inside another packet. This is called encapsulation.
Port redirection
Tunneling can redirect network traffic from one port to another. This allows secure access to network traffic and services across 
firewalls and from outside the network.
Data transmission
Tunneling can transmit data across a public network, but the data is intended for use only within a private network.
Remote access
Tunneling can enable remote access users to connect to a variety of network resources through a public data network.
Encrypted data transfer
Tunneling can transfer encrypted data over the network

Tunneling is a way to move packets from one network to another. Tunneling works via encapsulation: wrapping a packet inside another packet.
It is a protocol that allows for the secure envirmoment of data from one network to another.
A technique of internetworking called tunneling is used when src and destination networks of some type are to he connected through 
a network of diff type.'
EX :- an ethernet to be connected to another ethernet through wan.
IT works by encapsulating packets :- wrapping packets inside packets.

TARGET :- The Target tool enables you to define which targets are in scope for your current work. It also contains the site map and 
Crawl paths tab, which show you detailed information about your target applications. You can use the information about your 
target application's content and functionality to drive the workflow for your penetration testing.


Intruder :- Burp Intruder is a powerful tool for performing highly customizable, automated attacks against websites. 
It enables you to configure attacks 
that send the same request over and over again, inserting different payloads into predefined positions each time.

IT can be used to :-

Fuzz for input-based vulnerabilities.
Perform brute-force attacks.
Enumerate valid identifiers and other inputs.
Harvest useful data.

INTRUDER ATTACK TYPES :-
1). SNIPER :- This attack uses single set of payload, one and more payload positions, it places each payload into the 1st position then each payload
             on second position and so on.
2). Battering Ram :- This uses a single set of payload it iterates through payloads and places the same payloads into all of the defined
                     payload postion at once.
3). pitchfork :- This attack uses multiple payload sets there is diff payload set for each defined positions(maximum up to 20) this attack
                 iterates through all payloads sets simultaneously so it uses the ist payload from each set and then second payload from each 
                 set and so on.
4). clustur bomb :- It uses multiple payload sets there is diff payload set for each defined position(up to max of 20) this attack iterates through
                    each payload set in turn so that all permutation of payload combination are tested.

REPEATER :-
Burp Repeater is a tool that enables you to modify and send an HTTP or WebSocket message over and over. 
It can be used to Send a request with varying parameter values to test for input-based.

TARGET :- The Target tool enables you to define which targets are in scope for your current work. It also contains the site map and 
Crawl paths tab, which show you detailed information about your target applications. You can use the information about your target 
applications's content and 
functionality to drive the workflow for your penetration testing.

SEQUENCER :- 
Burp Sequencer enables you to analyze the quality of randomness in a sample of tokens. You can use Sequencer to test any tokens that are intended to be unpredictable, such as:

Session tokens.
Anti-CSRF tokens.
Password reset tokens.
Sequencer runs multiple randomness tests against a sample of tokens, then compiles the results to give you an indication of the quality of 
randomness in the sample.

DECODER :- Burp Decoder enables you to transform data using common encoding and decoding formats. You can use Decoder to: Manually decode data. 
Automatically identify and decode recognizable encoding formats, such as URL-encoding

COMPARER :- Burp Comparer enables you to compare any two items of data. You can use Comparer to quickly and easily identify subtle differences
between requests or responses. For example: To compare responses to failed logins that use valid and invalid usernames, for username enumeration.

LOGGER :- Burp Logger records all the HTTP traffic that Burp Suite generates in real-time. You can use Logger to: Study the requests sent by 
          any of Burp's tools or extensions. See the requests sent by Burp Scanner in real-time.

ORGANISER :- Burp Organizer is a tool that enables you to store and annotate copies of HTTP messages that you want to come back to later. 
Use Burp Organizer to better organize your penetration testing workflow, for example to:
Store messages that you want to investigate later.
Save messages that you've already identified as interesting.
Save messages that you want to add to a report later.
